**Hybrid Petri nets with a general one-shot transition** (HPNG) allow to model systems with discrete and continuous quantities that follow mainly deterministic characteristics. Recently, an efficient partitioning for the underlying state-space of such Petri nets has been presented, namely the so-called **Stochastic Timed Diagram** (STD). This partitioning allows to compute the probability distribution to be in a certain state at a certain time in a very efficient way and avoiding discretization. Algorithms for model checking **Stochastic Timed Logic** (STL) allow to efficiently check complex and nested properties on the underlying STD. A probability operator is used to lift the logic which reasons on STDs to the level of the HPNG.

This tool allows to model HPNGs. The system generates with an input STL formula, using the region-based techniques of STDs, a verdict for a specific time or produces a probability distribution.

To get familiar with the tool, please follow the instructions from http://code.google.com/p/fluid-survival-tool/wiki/BasicInstructions

Some useful references:
  * Postema, B.F. (2013) _Fluid Survival Tool: A model checker for Hybrid Petri nets._ Master's thesis, University of Twente. URL: http://essay.utwente.nl/63856/
  * Postema, B.F. and Remke, A.K.I. and Haverkort, B.R.H.M. and Ghasemieh, H. (2014) _Fluid Survival Tool: A Model Checker for Hybrid Petri Nets._ In: 17th International GI/ITG Conference on Measurement, Modelling, and Evaluation of Computing Systems and Dependability and Fault Tolerance, MMB & DFT 2014, 17-19 Mar 2014, Bamberg, Germany. pp. 255-259. Lecture Notes in Computer Science 8376. Springer International Publishing. ISSN 0302-9743 ISBN 978-3-319-05358-5. URL: http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-319-05359-2_18#page-1
  * Ghasemieh, H. and Remke, A.K.I. and Haverkort, B.R.H.M. (2013) _Survivability evaluation of fluid critical infrastructures using hybrid Petri nets._ In: Proceedings of the 19th IEEE Pacific Rim International Symposium on Dependable Computing, PRDC 2013, 02-04 Dec 2013, Vancouver, Canada. pp. 152-161. IEEE Computer Society. ISBN 978-0-7695-5130-2.
  * Ghasemieh, H. and Remke, A.K.I. and Haverkort, B.R.H.M. (2013) _Analysis of a sewage treatment facility using hybrid Petri nets._ In: Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Performance Evaluation Methodologies and Tools, VALUETOOLS 2013, 10-12 Dec 2013, Torino, Italy. ACM. URL: http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2631865
  * Ghasemieh, H. and Remke, A.K.I. and Haverkort, B.R.H.M. and Gribaudo, M. (2012) _Region-Based Analysis of Hybrid Petri Nets with a Single General One-Shot Transition._ In: 10th International Conference on Formal Modeling and Analysis of Timed Systems (FORMATS 2012), 18-20 Sep 2012, London, UK. pp. 139-154. Lecture Notes in Computer Science 7595. Springer Verlag. ISSN 0302-9743 ISBN 978-3-642-33364-4. URL: http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-642-33365-1_11#page-1